Welcome to our program.
Our focus this month is baptism.
How does a person progress from Bible student
to baptized Christian?
We’ll hear from many
who successfully completed the journey.
Sometimes as students gain Bible knowledge,
they realize they need to make
a major change in their life.
That was the case with this brother.
We’ll see how he met the challenge.
And our new music video
beautifully shows the joy experienced
by those who dedicate their life to Jehovah.
This is the March 2020 edition
of JW Broadcasting®.
Imagine for a moment
that you’re planning a road trip.
You have everything you need:
a map, a car, and plenty of fuel.
Before you start the engine, though,
you need to know your destination
—wouldn’t you agree?
If you don’t know where you are trying to go,
you won’t know which road to take.
The same is true of our ministry,
which is, in a sense, like that road trip.
As Acts 13:48 shows, we’re always searching
for “those who [are] rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
We have everything we need for the journey,
including all the tools
in our Teaching Toolbox.
But what would you say is our destination?
What’s the most important goal
that we are trying
to accomplish in our ministry?
Is it placing literature?
directing people to jw.org®?
making return visits?
starting Bible studies?
educating people about the Bible?
or making disciples
of Christ Jesus and baptizing them?
Each of those goals has value.
But which one is our primary goal?
What’s the destination that we want to reach?
Jesus identified it
at Matthew 28:19, 20.
There he said:
“Go, therefore, and make disciples
“of people of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name
“of the Father and
of the Son and of the holy spirit,
“teaching them to observe all the things
I have commanded you.”
Our destination, then,
is a baptized disciple.
Each person we meet,
each piece of literature that we place,
each time we direct attention to the website,
each return visit we make,
each Bible study we conduct
—we should have the final goal
of making a baptized disciple.
Why is baptism essential?
Put simply, it’s because baptism
is necessary for salvation.
That’s what the Bible tells us
at 1 Peter 3:21:
“Baptism . . . is also now saving you
“(not by the removing
of the filth of the flesh,
“but by the request to God
for a good conscience),
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.”
So from the time
we meet an interested person,
we want to have our eyes on that goal
of making a baptized disciple.
In fact, the November 1977 Kingdom Ministry
made this statement
regarding those we study with:
“Our discussions should reflect
“a genuine personal  interest in the student
“as a potential disciple and therefore
a potential brother or sister in the faith.”
If we don’t have that end-point
of a baptized disciple fixed firmly in mind,
we could end up stuck on side roads.
For example, watch this video,
and see if you can identify
the problem that our brother has.
Are you going out
in field service after lunch?
Yes, I’m going to be there, but I’ve got
one return visit that I’ve got to make.
All right, see you.
See you.
My neighbor lost his job after 20 years,
and as a result,
he’s got to move out of his house,
got to move into an apartment.
So I decided to go help him out a little bit
to pack up to make it a little easier
for him to make that move.
You know,
won’t it be nice at a time period
where we don’t have to worry
about economic troubles like that?
Yeah, it will.
Uhm, you know,
that’s why I’m so happy
that my grandchildren
chose to go for higher education.
They both landed good jobs.
You know that bridge
you cross when you come here.
You’ve noticed that they’re starting
to do some work on it.
And that’s pretty extensive work.
They’re going to replace that whole bridge.
So according to the newspaper article,
it’s going to be
like a six to eight month project.
Wow!
That is a long time.
Uhm, you know, Chris,
the reason why I came by
is I wanted to show you this magazine.
I love these.
These are so well written.
Isaiah 48:17 is a key scripture here.
Notice what it says:
“I, Jehovah, am your God,
the One teaching you to benefit yourself.”
That’s familiar.
I think your dad
read that to me once or twice.
How’s your dad doing anyway?
Doing good.
Ah, you know,
they said they’ve got more Bible studies
than they can even cover in one week.
Well, well, you know, I can remember
when you and your dad came here.
You were a little kid about this high,
and you just stayed right by his side.
And your dad was so proud.
You know, Chris,
I know my dad had offered
to study the Bible with you in the past.
John, to be honest,
I’m too old to change;
I’m set in my ways now.
I think that God is just going
to have to take me the way I am.
More chocolate?
Uhm, yeah.
I don’t mind.
Could you identify
with the brother in that video?
Have you ever had a return visit with someone
who just loves your company?
Perhaps you’ve been leaving literature
with that person for months
—even years—
and yet the person
has no genuine interest in progressing.
Why is that a problem?
Apparently, the person isn’t interested
in becoming a disciple of Christ Jesus.
Our time would be better spent
searching for other people
who are “rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
Of course, that doesn’t mean
that there’s no value
in placing literature
or leaving contact cards
that direct people to jw.org.
These provisions are part
of our Teaching Toolbox for a reason.
They can play a vital role
in reaching the hearts
of those who are “rightly disposed.”
So continue to make good use of these tools
that Jehovah’s organization provides.
At the same time,
never lose sight of your goal
to start Bible studies with interested ones
—and then the ultimate goal:
to “make disciples . . . , baptizing them.”
What about a person
you’ve been studying with for years,
but the person isn’t making changes,
hasn’t stopped going to church,
and shows no real interest
in attending Christian meetings?
Some people are glad
to study the Bible with us
simply for the fact
that they value Bible education.
And we love to teach people about the Bible.
But we have to remember
that providing Bible education
for its own sake is not our primary goal.
In fact, it could be a side road.
The fact is,
some people who value Bible education
are not interested in becoming
baptized disciples of Jesus.
The world is full of Bible scholars
who are highly educated in the Bible
but who do not become
disciples of Christ Jesus.
For example, one Bible scholar was educated
at a Bible institute, a religious college,
and a theological seminary.
He holds a doctorate in religious studies.
He has a thorough knowledge
of Biblical Greek,
and he’s written 30 books about the Bible.
Yet, he describes himself
as an “agnostic atheist.”
So just providing Bible education
is not our primary goal.
We want people to build faith in God
and to have
their own relationship with Jehovah
that will move them toward the destination
of dedication and baptism.
That’s why it’s important to honestly analyze
the progress of our Bible students.
Are they simply taking in knowledge?
Do they prepare in advance for the study?
Do they answer
in their own words and from their heart?
Are they making changes in their life
to conform to what they’ve learned?
Are they attending
and benefiting from Christian meetings?
If not, we may need to follow the advice
of the Kingdom Ministry
of October 1988, which stated:
“If a student is not making
meaningful progress
“after you have patiently aided him
“over a reasonable period of time,
“it may be best to use the time
“to better advantage
searching for deserving ones.
“Depending on the circumstances,
it may be wise to discontinue the study.”
But why is it so important to be selective
about who we spend our time with?
Isn’t conducting an unproductive study
better than knocking on doors
where no one is home
or where no one shows interest?
To answer that, let’s read Jesus’ words
at Matthew 10:11-13.
Now, when instructing his disciples
about how to conduct
their ministry, Jesus said:
“Into whatever city or village you enter,
“search out who in it is deserving,
“and stay there until you leave.
“When you enter the house,
greet the household.
“If the house is deserving,
“let the peace you wish it come upon it;
“but if it is not deserving,
let the peace from you return upon you.”
In harmony with those verses,
we want to focus our attention
on deserving ones
as Jesus instructed,
people who are
“rightly disposed for everlasting life.”
Obviously, there is a balance.
We need to be patient
with those we call on and study with,
and not everyone progresses at the same rate.
But as we call on people and study with them,
we should never lose sight of our goal
—our destination—
to “make disciples . . . , baptizing them.”
If we have that goal clearly in mind,
we’ll know when we are moving toward it,
and we’ll know
when we are getting sidetracked.
We could illustrate it like this:
Think of a plane on a runway.
That plane is like a person you’ve visited
and you believe shows
sincere interest in the Bible’s message.
Your short-term goal at this point
is to get them off the runway
and into a Bible study.
If you do, that means
the plane has taken off.
But once your study is airborne,
you have to keep
your sights on your destination.
You can’t just stay in the air indefinitely.
Your goal is to make a baptized disciple.
If, in a reasonable amount of time,
the student isn’t progressing,
what will you do?
To keep the study going
would be like flying in circles.
In the same way, a Bible study
that’s simply suspended
in the air goes nowhere.
We have to land the plane
—either at the destination
of a baptized disciple
or at the termination of the study.
But what if something is holding
your Bible student back
from the destination of baptism
—maybe an attachment to holiday celebrations
or an unclean habit, like smoking?
Notice how this issue arises
in the following brief video.
When I started studying the Bible,
there were various factors
that hindered my study.
I was a truck driver,
and I was on the road a lot.
I had the worst kind
of friendships,
and I smoked.
I smoked, on average, 60 cigarettes a day.
I realized that if I
was going to make the needed adjustments,
I had to change my profession.
So I changed my job.
But if I wanted to get baptized,
I had to stop smoking.
I cut down to two or three cigarettes a day.
One day, I bought a single cigarette.
I lit it, and I prayed to Jehovah.
I begged him to help me,
and he did help me
—so much so that I never smoked again.
And to this day,
I don’t even have the urge to smoke.
Ten years after my first Bible study,
I was baptized.
I’ve been serving Jehovah for 20 years now,
along with my wife and all my children.
Did you notice this man
had to pray to Jehovah
to get the help he needed
to overcome smoking?
In other words, he had to cultivate
his own relationship with Jehovah
in order to build the faith
he needed to stop smoking.
In the same way, we need to help our students
to build their own relationship with Jehovah
so that they’ll also overcome any obstacles
that might hold them back
from progressing to baptism.
But what if you’re not
presently conducting a Bible study?
What if you’ve never had the privilege
of having one
of your Bible students get baptized?
Does that mean your service
to Jehovah is not valuable?
Not at all.
Remember, we each
do our part in the ministry.
Do you remember what the apostle Paul said
at 1 Corinthians 3:6, 7:
“I planted, Apollos watered,
“but God kept making it grow,
“so that neither is
the one who plants anything
“nor is the one who waters,
but God who makes it grow.”
So never feel
that your efforts are unimportant.
Just as Paul said,
what’s accomplished
in the ministry is a group effort.
When a person reaches baptism,
it isn’t just because of the effort
of the person who conducted the study.
The efforts of others played a role.
Perhaps someone else
initiated that person’s interest
by placing literature
or in some other way
giving a witness.
But remember what Paul said.
Jehovah is the one “who makes it grow.”
He is the one that is drawing to himself
those who are “rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
What a privilege we have
to be fellow workers with Jehovah
as we help people
become disciples of Christ Jesus!
If we keep that goal clearly in mind,
how will it help us?
We won’t be content just to place literature
or just to direct interest to jw.org.
We won’t be satisfied
just making return visits
or starting Bible studies.
We’ll always have in mind
our primary destination
—making disciples of Christ
and baptizing them.
We of the Governing Body
wish you Jehovah’s rich blessing
as you work shoulder to shoulder with us
in helping “rightly disposed” ones
become baptized disciples of Jesus.
In our first video,
we’ll hear from several brothers and sisters
about how they progressed to baptism.
We’ll learn answers to questions
commonly asked about baptism:
What does it take to qualify?
What does one need to work on?
What’s the actual day of baptism like?
And what blessings
can you expect after baptism?
I enjoyed associating
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Later, I also started to study the Bible.
I knew that I had to make
drastic changes in my life,
but my job prevented me from doing so.
So I asked myself,
‘What would I like to do with my life?’
I began studying
the Bible again with the couple
and one month later
started attending meetings regularly.
Since our parents had stopped studying,
only three of us went to the meetings.
Jehovah can do a lot with you.
Jehovah could, you know,
your whole perspective can change.
I knew if I applied what I learned,
Jehovah would not let me down.
To strengthen my relationship with Jehovah,
I read the Bible daily and I pray.
My relationship with Jehovah
has gotten stronger.
When I pray now,
it feels like I’m talking to my close Friend.
Going out in service more—
I think it really helped me
to draw closer to Jehovah
and make the Kingdom feel real to me.
And so that’s why I wanted to get baptized.
What a great pleasure it was for me
when four months later
I could dedicate myself to Jehovah
and get baptized!
That made me so happy.
Today is a very, very special day for me,
because today I’m getting baptized.
At the regional convention, August 9, 2014,
it was a beautiful day.
Now, when I think about my three children
who got baptized today,
I feel my heart is full of joy,
and I really thank Jehovah!
Yeah, it’s not a day I don’t go thank Jehovah
for taking me out of the darkness.
If we are determined to be loyal to Jehovah
and we have the courage to remain chaste,
well, we won’t have any regrets.
To know that you have a heavenly Father
that cares about you
—that was the best feeling on earth.
I often think:
‘God, is it true? Is it real?
Do I really deserve to have
all these blessings?’
All these blessings have helped me to see
that this life provides
true satisfaction and true happiness.
The important quality
that Jehovah has taught me is love.
I felt that love from my family,
from Jehovah, and from my friends.
I learned that it’s OK to love people,
and that’s what you are supposed to do.
Working closely with Jehovah,
I really feel part of his family.
When you give your faith to Jehovah,
you’re giving your life to him.
He’s permitted these things
to come upon me;
I knew that.
But he protected me.
When I meditate and think
about what Jehovah
has done for me and Lei Lei,
I don’t have to be afraid.
Jehovah is my “secure refuge,”
because life may change,
but Jehovah does not change.
Choosing to serve Jehovah
was the best decision I have made in my life.
What beautiful expressions!
Did you notice
what helps a person qualify for baptism?
It’s studying the Bible, attending meetings,
having a share in the ministry, and praying.
It was obvious
that these brothers and sisters
were so happy they had made
the decision to get baptized.
For some, the road to baptism
takes much effort.
But when that day comes,
it marks a turning point in their life.
We’ll see that in our next video.
I was born in Dalby, Queensland.
I’m the youngest of five children,
and my mother and father
owned their own piggery.
So we lived on a little farm
about ten minutes out of town.
When I was eight years old,
my parents separated,
which came as a huge shock to me.
It was devastating, and the consequences
just seemed to roll on for decades.
I would go and stay at the farm
with my father for school holidays,
but my dad abused alcohol
and smoked cigarettes
and used bad language.
So by the time I was a teenager,
I was doing exactly the same thing.
In my late teens,
I was smoking marijuana every day
and I was spending up to four nights a week
at pubs and clubs and parties.
I was addicted to alcohol,
cigarettes, marijuana,
and pornography, and I had no power to stop.
Obviously, it was only a matter of time
before that lifestyle affected my health.
I lost my social skills,
and I became depressed.
The turning point in my life
came one afternoon when two
of Jehovah’s Witnesses knocked on my door.
Because of feeling so lost and so unhappy,
I had started to search
for answers and I’d begun looking
at New Age teachings.
The timing felt too remarkable
to be just coincidence.
I really felt like God
wanted me to take the book.
I never looked at New Age teachings again.
I started to read
the Greatest Man  book instead.
A major key for me
to be able to make the necessary changes
was to cut off bad association.
I was baptized in March 1994.
When I finally took that step,
I felt like I’d started on the right path.
I was so grateful that Jehovah
had found me and that he’d drawn me.
I really fell in love
with the thoughts of Psalm 8:1, 3, 4:
“O Jehovah . . . ,
“when I see your heavens,
“the works of your fingers,
“the moon and the stars
that you have prepared,
“what is mortal man
that you keep him in mind,
and the son of earthling man
that you take care of him?”
I felt so insignificant,
and yet Jehovah knew me.
The hope of everlasting life
also really touched my heart,
and so did Jehovah’s forgiveness.
I felt so grateful
that Jehovah could forgive me
for all of my wrongdoing
and that I could have a fresh start.
When we were invited to start circuit work,
I had serious doubts about my inadequacies.
I was not fast at preparing talks.
For me, it always felt like trying to fit
a square peg into a round hole.
But the very morning
after receiving our assignment
to go in the circuit work full-time,
my Bible reading was Exodus chapters 3 and 4,
where Moses cited his inadequacies to Jehovah
—that he was not a fluent speaker.
Well, of course, Jehovah asked him,
‘Who is it that assigns a mouth?’
It was like Jehovah was saying to me:
‘Don’t worry. I will help you.’
To make the changes that I did in life,
I’m just so grateful to Jehovah.
Before I learned the truth, I was lost.
I didn’t know who I was.
I was just a mess.
I wanted to be a man,
but I didn’t really ever know how to do it.
Jehovah has rebuilt me from the ground up.
Jehovah has given me everything.
We can learn a lot from this experience.
Some people, like Andrew,
have lives filled with challenging problems.
Yet, by developing a relationship with God,
Andrew said,
“Jehovah has rebuilt me from the ground up.”
We saw that major changes
may be needed to make spiritual progress.
In Andrew’s case, he cut off bad association.
Finally, Andrew’s experience shows
that baptism isn’t the end of the journey.
He continued to grow spiritually.
But what if you’ve been raised
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses?
Are you thinking about getting baptized?
Have you made baptism your personal goal?
Getting baptized when you’re young
can lead to a life
filled with rich blessings.
With that in mind,
I’m so happy to welcome today
a very dear friend of mine,
Brother Robert P. Johnson.
R. P., welcome to the program.
Thank you, Mark.
I appreciate being here.
Now, you’re here, R.P.,
because you are a wonderful example
of someone who’s had a life
filled with blessings in Jehovah’s service.
OK.
So I know that your family
goes way back in the truth.
Yes.
In fact, I understand
that your great grandfather
learned the truth in Brother Russell’s time,
even before 1914.
That’s right!
So that means
you’re a fourth-generation Witness.
Mm-hm.
But now, like so many
who are watching our program,
you were a little boy growing up
in a congregation of Jehovah’s people.
So how did you come
to the decision that you wanted
to dedicate your life to serve Jehovah
and then get baptized?
Well, Mark, thinking back, I can identify
at least two
outstanding influences in my life.
And the first was my parents.
Having that heritage in the truth helped me.
I was just an average kid in my early years.
But the parents instilled in me a desire
to please Jehovah
and make it my life to do that.
They set goals before me.
They taught me the truth.
I learned enough from them to be able
to make a dedication to Jehovah God
and to have a close relationship with him.
And so early on, that’s what I did.
I remember that evening after supper
in my bedroom
praying to Jehovah to accept my dedication.
The date was May 25, 1949.
I was 11 years old at the time.
I told my parents, and they were happy,
but they just wanted me
to wait longer to make sure
especially how I
would handle the teenage years
and so on, so I waited.
And so then when did the moment
come for you to finally get baptized?
It was at the 1953 international convention
in Yankee Stadium in New York
on July 22, 1953, when I was baptized.
And again, I remember
that like it was yesterday.
When I came up out of the water,
I thanked Jehovah that finally,
“I am one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!”
and I also, like a child, added,
“You can bring the end anytime now.”
So you mentioned your parents,
the good influence they had on you,
but was there another influence
on you that helped you?
Yes.
At the 1953 convention,
Brother Knorr had identified
that there would be a special program
for training people in the truth.
And from the congregation,
there was a brother
of the anointed named Charles Richardson,
and my father asked Brother Richardson
to train me in this training program.
And Brother Richardson
was a mentor to me
for the next five years of my life.
Over the years, he helped me
view the ministry as an opportunity
to help people develop
a relationship with Jehovah
and, therefore, to reach out to them
in teaching them the truth
—the doctrinal truth—
but to help them to see
that Jehovah is a real person.
And he helped me to enjoy the ministry.
That is what has kept me happy
in Jehovah’s service down to this day.
Now, just from your expressions
and what you talked about with me before,
I could see that this Brother Richardson
had a tremendous impact on your life.
And I think, R.P., it really made you
want to be a trainer of other people
because that’s how I first met you, right?
Right.
You were the brother
assigned to be my trainer
when I came to the Service Department.
I remember that fondly.
And I know that I’m not the only one.
I mean, you’ve really spent
your whole life training other people.
Well, it’s been a privilege.
And I was trained;
I was helped along the way.
I was nobody special, but Jehovah
has extended undeserved kindness to me
and made all these things possible.
So there’s no excuse
for me not passing along the baton.
And it’s a delight
for me to see others carry it.
So now, let’s come back.
You’re 15 years old.
You get baptized at Yankee Stadium,
and now as a result
of being baptized at this age,
how do you feel you benefited?
For one thing,
if you know what you want to do
and you stay focused on it,
it makes it easier to deal
with whatever challenges come later.
And so being dedicated
and baptized early in life
helped me to stay focused on the truth.
I still remember that dedication.
It means something to me,
and I tried to make it
mean something to others
(for as young as they can possibly make it).
And they’ll find the same thing I found:
Jehovah’s blessing will be with them.
So now, at 15,
what doors start to open up?
What opportunities come to you
because you are a baptized brother?
At age 17, I was appointed
as a ministerial servant.
I started pioneering right out
of high school at age 18.
And serving where the need was greater,
I got a chance to work
at starting a new congregation.
And so at 21,
I was congregation servant,
or an elder, at that point.
Then there was a need:
The organization was looking for brothers
who could do traveling work.
So at age 25, I had the privilege
of being a traveling overseer.
So now, how did you feel
being an elder at 21?
being a circuit overseer at 25?
Was it a little bit overwhelming
at such a young age?
I was scared.
I knew the truth,
but I was uncertain about myself,
but then I also knew Jehovah would help me.
I learned a lot as a young
traveling overseer, and I thank Jehovah
that the people
in the circuits that I served
endured those three years
that I was with them.
But now, those were the challenges,
but what do you see as being the benefits
of being a young traveling overseer?
For the congregation, they had somebody
who could stay out
in field service long hours.
And also
the younger traveling overseer could relate
to the young people
and the younger adults in the congregation.
There were other benefits
that even today different ones
that I served in earlier circuits
bring forth to me.
For example, after having
a good time in field service
and then the meetings,
I would do recreational things with the kids.
And we ran track
out in the streets,
and we played board games,
softball, basketball,
and then we had good times
just talking about the truth
and also talking
about how you can put your ministry first,
and there’s plenty of time
for seeking a mate later.
So now, for a time,
you were serving as a single brother,
but at some point, that changed.
When did that happen?
I have enjoyed the best of two worlds.
I enjoyed singleness
and the blessings Jehovah gave me.
But when I was 28 years old,
I married a beautiful pioneer sister,
and I had already gotten adjusted
in my circuit work.
This was my second circuit.
So, thanks to Jehovah,
we were able to be married, and to this day
Gracie and I continue in full-time service
after 52 years of marriage.
So R.P.,
you started with circuit work,
and then later you went on to district work.
Right.
And then you were teaching
the Kingdom Ministry School.
Mm-hm.
And then you got invited to Bethel.
Right.
And 31 years at Bethel, right?
Oh, yes.
And now you and Gracie
are doing special pioneer work.
Right, in Orlando, Florida.
So you have more than 60 years
of full-time service to Jehovah.
It’s because of Jehovah’s blessing,
and it’s made me happy.
So the question I want to ask you is:
When you’re looking back now
to these 60 wonderful years
—more than 60 wonderful years—
what would you say to young people
who are facing the same decision
that you faced when you were
a little boy growing up in the truth?
It’s the best thing
I could’ve done with my life,
and I had many opportunities.
Jehovah blessed my humble efforts
as he has blessed you and others too.
The young people today
have even more opportunities
because Jehovah’s organization
under the leadership of Jesus Christ
is expanding and moving fast.
And, like Brother Richardson taught me,
if you just make yourself available,
then the organization
will find a place for you and use you,
and that’s so true today.
One of my greatest joys
is to see the young people
take the baton and run with it,
and I have no regrets.
There’s been no challenge
that has overwhelmed me
and made me regret things.
There were challenges, of course,
but with Jehovah’s help,
well, I’m here today.
And that can be true of our young people.
So seize the opportunity while you’re young
and experience the blessing
that Jehovah gives those
who serve him from youth onward.
R.P., it has been such a wonderful joy
to have you here on this program
and to hear about your life filled with joy,
your life filled with blessings,
all because of the decision
you made just as a little boy
to dedicate your life
to Jehovah and get baptized.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
I appreciate talking about it.
Baptism is always a special feature
of our conventions and assemblies.
We’ll see that in the following report
on the special convention
held in Mozambique in 2018.
The Mozambique special convention
is truly outstanding
for so many different reasons.
One thing
that has made this convention unique
is that we have so many courageous brothers
who have been in prison for their faith
from Angola, Korea, Malawi, Zimbabwe,
and from some of the countries in Europe
and who had to really stand up
and set an example.
And to have them all here
with our courageous
Mozambican brothers
has made this
convention so special.
It is very encouraging
to be at this special convention.
We have spent ten years
in the “reeducation camps”
along with our brothers from Malawi,
and we were at the same camp.
And today we are together
at this special convention.
It’s very encouraging.
In 1990, I was judged and condemned
to 15 months of prison in Paris.
We were about 100 brothers in prison.
They tried to shame us,
but thanks to Jehovah, we had courage.
And today this beautiful convention
fills us with even more courage.
I was one of the brothers serving
as a bicycle courier during the ban,
delivering literature long distances.
It was difficult work
because the police were searching for us.
Jehovah blessed us with courage,
giving us a heart without fear.
Because of our Christian neutrality,
we were in prison.
Although it was a difficult time,
Jehovah gave us courage to endure,
and now we are here together.
We really thank Jehovah for that.
I was arrested and sentenced
to six years in prison.
Despite all these difficulties,
today I feel very happy.
I feel very encouraged.
At this convention, we released
the Greek Scriptures  in Tshwa and Sena.
Thank you very much, Jehovah,
for this wonderful provision.
I will surely use it
while speaking about Jehovah’s name
in Tshwa.
We are so happy to have
this Bible in the Tshwa language.
It’s easy to read,
and it will improve our family worship.
Those were the first two local languages
in Mozambique to receive
any part of the New World Translation.
So it was a very exciting day!
This convention was tied
in to 18 locations in Mozambique.
A total of 1,685 were baptized.
I have faith in Jehovah
and want to have
a close relationship with him.
Many have commented
on the fact that among the 981
who were baptized in Maputo,
there were many young ones.
And it just shows
that the families here in Mozambique
are working very hard with their young ones
to help them to know Jehovah and love Jehovah
and to know what it means to be courageous.
To organize
a special convention
in Africa
requires a lot of work and a lot of planning.
But you can truly see
the blessing of Jehovah here
because everything has gone so beautifully
and the delegates are so happy!
You can really feel
that Jehovah’s spirit is with us.
Before the work was banned in Mozambique,
we used to sing to Jehovah.
At the camps, we continued to sing joyfully.
Now with the special convention,
we continue to sing to our delegates.
Many of the delegates
commented that their favorite part
of the convention was going out
in the ministry with the local brothers.
Even though the brothers
may have very limited resources,
they showed them tremendous hospitality;
it made a huge impression.
Some of the delegates even said
that when they go back,
this is going to have
a life-changing effect on them.
We want to assure
these dear brothers and sisters
that the Governing Body loves them.
But greater than that,
Jehovah God knows about them;
he loves them; he’s supporting them.
What a joyous occasion!
I’ll never forget it and,
I trust, neither will
the 1,685 brothers and sisters
who were baptized at that convention.
There’s nothing like the day you’re baptized.
Our new music video
captures this in word and song.
In the quiet of the night,
With a million stars above,
When I think of you and of all you do,
It fills my heart with love.
If I give my life to you,
You will always be my guide.
As the days go by, you will see that I
Am forever on your side.
Because you gave me hope
That changed my life
And strength
to help me through,
Because you gave your Son
To die for me,
I give my life to you;
I give my life to you.
As the sun lights up the sky,
Melting warm upon my skin,
How your endless days and your tender ways
Stir these feelings deep within!
Because you gave me hope
That changed my life
And strength
to help me through,
Because you gave your Son
To die for me,
I give my life to you;
I give my life to you.
Because you gave me hope
That changed my life
And strength
to help me through,
Because you gave your Son
To die for me,
I give my life to you;
I give my life to you.
What a beautiful original song
about the thoughts and feelings we each have
when we dedicate our life to Jehovah!
Our program has focused on baptism.
We learned
that our primary goal in the ministry
is to help people
establish their own relationship
with Jehovah that moves them
to dedicate their life to him
and be baptized.
We saw that with Jehovah’s help,
obstacles in the way
of baptism can be removed.
Andrew’s experience showed us
that baptism can be
a turning point in one’s life.
We saw that making the decision
to dedicate your life to Jehovah
when you’re young
can lead to a lifetime of joy
and rich blessings from Jehovah.
We heard from many
who successfully made the journey to baptism
and saw the joy and happiness
of that special day.
Before we close,
let’s visit our brothers
and sisters in Angola.
The Republic of Angola
is on the west coast of Africa.
This is a beautiful
and geographically diverse land.
It’s home
to the breathtaking Kalandula Falls.
The ministry here
ranges from the city of Luanda,
where the territory is worked every few days,
to rugged and remote areas accessible
only by walking.
Angola’s population
of some 30 million people
includes many indigenous tribes
and language groups.
About 45 percent of the population
is under the age of 15.
Angola has been recovering
from a civil war that lasted 27 years.
Despite the challenges,
many are embracing the truth.
Angola is home
to more than 160,000
Jehovah’s Witnesses.
They’re conducting
over 720,000 Bible studies.
An average of 25 people
are baptized every day,
13 congregations are formed every month,
and an average
of 15 new circuits every year.
This has created
a tremendous need for places of worship.
Currently, more than 300 new Kingdom Halls
and 13 new Assembly Halls are needed.
This is the Malueca Congregation in Luanda.
This beautiful Kingdom Hall
was recently completed
and is already used by five congregations.
Our dear brothers and sisters in Angola
send you their love and greetings.
And, brothers and sisters,
we love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!